# Assignment 1
Gloria Pulido
## Domains
1. **Being a caretaker:** organizing and navigating taking care of a loved one
2. **Productivity:** listing out what has already been done and seeing what others are up to, especially in a school setting
3. **Jobs:** keeping track of applications and documents, receiving personalized tips
4. **Smart spending:** before deciding to spend money, reflecting on value of what you’re planning to buy
5. **Sports:** getting personalized recommendations on games
6. **Moving & packing:** keeping track of everything you need for a move and receive suggestions
7. **Puzzles:** creating puzzles to share and play with others

8. **SELECTED, Problem solving:** Problem solving is extremely relevant in the life of every person regardless of age or background, so it would be interesting to explore an app that can solve the problem of wanting to solve problems. By navigating through any issues between people, it generally improves one’s life, which will have other indirect effects such as reduced stress, potentially money saved, and time saved. A lot of people need additional support when it comes to problem solving, especially when it comes to roommates, coworkers, or other groups. I think back to my own personal experience with my past living situations and group projects.  
9. **SELECTED, Thrifting:** The idea of reusing items has become more popular in recent years, especially with the increased popularity of thrift stores, and it’s something I think is particularly important. Based on my own past personal experiences, I’ve gone seconds away from throwing something away and then deciding it could be used elsewhere. I cannot count how many times I’ve reused jars for things like planting and even as a cup, which has been useful as well for my budget. It’s important to get the most of something before deciding that it does not have any value or is not worth having. The mindset of “one man's trash is another man's treasure” is pretty important to have about one’s own items. 
10. **SELECTED, Developing new hobbies & skills:** When I consider my own hobbies and skills, I think a lot about how there are many things that I have never thought to even explore. My friends have introduced me to cool hobbies such as crocheting in the past, which have all been nice opportunities to pick up something new and learn with my friends. I always want to make sure that I am open to new skills, especially ones that I haven’t heard of, which I am certain is a common feeling among others. 

## Problems
### Problem Solving
1. **How to deliver bad news:** A project that provides tips on delivering bad news would be too simple and in this current age, is not necessarily needed. A user could just ask another person for advice, use a site such as ChatGPT for personalized information, or read articles that cover that content.
2. **How to find counseling:** A project that deals with this problem would suffer from a lack of differentiation from other sites that are very well known for this and would stand very little chance of being able to acquire any users. It would also require a lot of additional work in terms of just being able to filter through providers and locations, whether I would have to find a database for it or getting a provider to add their information.
3. **SELECTED, How to decide on a solution:** If I could give the project for this problem a title, it would be WeProblemSolve. I picked this problem as one of the three since whether it is on an individual level having to weigh different options or a group wanting to come together to navigate something like a rough living situation, there’s a lot of possibilities. It’s also a very widespread problem and having an app that can make the problem solving process easier is a win for many. There’s also a never-ending list of problems people deal with which would mean likely continued usage. 
### Thrifting
1. **Finding quality thrift stores:** I didn’t include this one since I believe that at the end of the day, a target audience likely would not use an app for this. Instead, finding good thrift stores usually is learned through word of mouth or social media and for many people, would be more reliable. 
2. **How much to sell stuff for:** I did not include this problem since I believe not enough people are dealing with indecision to a point where they would turn to an app for solving it. Whether they decide to ask a person, ChatGPT, or something else, it is not a large enough problem. 
3. **SELECTED, Finding ideas for re-using something:** A title I would give is Reduce Reuse Recycle since it reminds people of that common phrase. I included it since I think there is definitely a large market for this with the popularity of people wanting to reduce their waste and be more sustainable. Whether it is reusing a jar or wanting to build something from scraps, it could go in a lot of ways and could also help people with their own creativity. 

### Developing New Hobbies & Skills
1. **Finding supplies for a hobby:** It may be helpful for a person to have one central place for finding supplies, but it is not a large enough problem. People often turn to guides online or search themselves in order to get the best deals, so it would be difficult to develop an app with the amount of personalization needed to make it attractive for consumers. 
2. **Finding workshops or other events to develop hobbies:** I believe that this problem is too narrow since like the problem regarding finding supplies for a hobby, a simple Google search can cover this. 
3. **SELECTED, Encountering challenges to mastering a hobby/skill:** For a title, I would pick LevelUp. I included this one since I believe there is a lot of potential for it as people are always searching for something to do and wanting to grow. Most of those same people will also deal with challenges to mastering something, which is where solving this problem could be extremely beneficial. It is something that I am personally interested in as well since I find that like most, once one obstacle comes up, motivation to continue goes down and it leads to a lot of projects being unfinished rather than remaining dedicated and accountable. 

## Stakeholders
### Problem Solving
- User, a college student tired of her messy roommates
- Roommates, people that live with the User
- Landlord, in charge of managing the apartment 

Whether or not they use the app, all of these stakeholders could be affected by the outcome of the app. The User, who decides to initiate the conversation regarding using the app will benefit the most as they are the one feeling the effects of the problem to a degree that they feel the need to bring in that external support. They will also be the best person to consider if the problem has been “solved” for that same reason. The Roommates will increase their self-awareness due to the app being mentioned, and will change their habits potentially based on the app being able to mediate successfully. The Landlord would be involved based on how the app goes. For example, if the roommates decide someone has to go or decide it’s time to demand the changes they need to the facilities in their apartment, the landlord could be called in. In this case, a Landlord having to lose or spend money could be positive for judging the effectiveness of the app. 

### Thrifting
- User #1, a college student looking to save money
- User #2, a woman tired of Pinterest and looking to be as creative as possible
- Waste collector, person that comes around weekly to gather the waste and recycling

The best way to judge the effectiveness of the app for User #1 is if they find that they are spending less money on new clothes and other items. For User #2, the best way could be if they end up spending more money since they find that for their attempts to turn something such as scraps of paper into something usable, it could lead to more money being spent but all of it being used still. For a waste collector, they may find that if they are doing their weekly rounds on the street where User #1 and User #2 live, they will have less lifting to do as there is significantly less trash which means they are able to relax for more of their shift, which also indirectly improves their health.

### Developing New Hobbies & Skills
- User #1, a person looking to learn how garden
- User #2, a person looking to learn how to code in order to get a new job
- Business owner of a gardening shop, sells items for User #1

The best way to judge the effectiveness of the app for User #1 is if it is found that they are spending more money as an investment and have a garden with edible vegetables by the end of the season, which leads to less money spent on food. If they are mainly focused on flowers, then this also could lead to a higher property value due to the app. Meanwhile, User #2 is unable to figure out the best way to get a high-paying skill without overburdening himself with another heavy schedule. If the app existed, the best way to judge the effectiveness for this stakeholder would be if they are able to learn a language proficiently and be able to complete job interviews successfully, which later leads to a pay raise. For a business owner of a gardening shop, they may be struggling with sales since many people are moving into cities where they do not have the space for a garden. If there were to be an app that makes gardening as a hobby more approachable, it could lead to increased sales as a result of more people gaining interest in having small gardens even in their apartments or people looking for something to do at their house.

## Evidence
### How to Decide on a Solution 
- [More adults now share their living space, driven in part by parents living with their adult children](https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2018/01/31/more-adults-now-share-their-living-space-driven-in-part-by-parents-living-with-their-adult-children/) This report from the Pew Research Center reveals how compared to 1995 when 55 million adults lived in a shared household, the number has grown to 79 million adults in 2017. This reveals just how huge the market could be if the app goes in a direction where it is tailored specifically to people with roommates. 
- [What a Roommate Saves You in 50 U.S. Cities – 2021 Edition](https://smartasset.com/data-studies/what-a-roommate-saves-you-in-50-us-cities-2021) This article highlights the financial benefits of having a roommate, especially in cities such as New York City. This serves as a reminder that people will always continue to have roommates, especially with that info kept in mind and it is also helpful for seeing that an app that addresses problem solving will have the opportunity to grow. 
- [Top 5 Reasons We Struggle to Solve Problems Effectively](https://blog.becomemoregp.com/blog/top-reasons-we-struggle-to-solve-problems-effectively) This article mentions the common issues people experience when problem solving, and this particular line “people who take the time to consider all available evidence make superior choices compared to those who jump to conclusions too quickly,” speaks directly to the need for an app that can help people do that. Like the article points out, there are studies that support that idea and indicate more effective problem solving.
- [How to Deal With Roommate Problems](https://mhanational.org/resources/how-to-deal-with-roommate-problems/) This article highlights various different methods for navigating issues with roommates, which brings more attention to the fact that an app that could assist with these things such as minimizing the pressure of bringing up these problems and reduces the chances of having to seek the help of for example, an RA, would be desirable for many to use.
- [Loomio](https://www.loomio.com/) One limitation of this app that makes an attempt at solving the problem of problem solving is that it does not support anonymous voting and could allow for direct calling out of certain people involved, which could be problematic. It also is mainly suited for coworkers and a professional environment.
- [What is problem solving and why is it important?](https://kepner-tregoe.com/blogs/what-is-problem-solving-and-why-is-it-important/) This article highlights the benefits of problem solving, which serves as a reminder that people want to develop these skills. By having an app that targets that, it can mean more development for people, which will make it an attractive app. 
- [Kialo](https://www.kialo-edu.com/) This app addresses the same problem in a similar manner by focusing on student discussions and disagreements in the academic sense. It does have an anonymous mode, but does not necessarily encourage or allow for more neutral opinions.
- [Bulby](https://www.bulby.com/) This app addresses a similar problem by looking at collaboration and brainstorming for teams. The marketing of the app is a limitation of it as the over-reliance on mentioning AI in its website could either attract or scare prospective customers away. 
- [Benefits of Conflict Resolution Skills](https://www.alcoverooms.com/blog/post/benefits-of-conflict-resolution-skills) This article highlights the benefits of problem solving on a more general level rather than just individual by mentioning how it can lead to more productive living environments and better communication across groups. 

### Finding Ideas for Re-using Something
- [Swapabee](https://swapabee.com/) This app aims to solve a similar problem of reducing waste by letting users swap items with each other. A limitation of this app is that if there are not enough users or any desirable items, it can easily collapse. 
- [Thrifting Statistics](https://capitaloneshopping.com/research/thrifting-statistics/) When it comes to clothing and apparel specifically, this article highlights how the market for it is huge with it generating $53 billion in 2023 in the US. Even an app could reframe this thinking of wanting to be sustainable by focusing specifically on one’s own items and remaking clothes into something new, it could have a lot of users. 
- [Why Reuse Is Important](https://thereusepeople.org/why-reuse-is-important/?gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=21669488850&gbraid=0AAAAA-B_5YfADmynEuKbtbZDILzF-ZzwE&gclid=CjwKCAjw2vTFBhAuEiwAFaScwtXF7qYtOzru9GM-UcyS9KQUrMsb_-1GMxac0z95h3svmSvm3qak6xoCjwAQAvD_BwE#gad_source_1) This article highlights the benefits of reusing items for the environment, which would be the mission behind an app that aims to solve the problem of finding ways to reuse one’s items. 
- [The Benefits of Upcycling](https://kidsrkids.com/blog/the-benefits-of-upcycling/) This article takes a different approach to focusing on the benefits of reusing items by looking at children and the personal impact it can have to have fun projects for their creativity. 
- [27 Benefits of Thrifting (..that will surprise you!)](https://www.minimizemymess.com/blog/benefits-of-thrifting?srsltid=AfmBOoqY_eu16FnLzM1nDFjDOOZUqYVTxCkiChGq0gOtHJ3aowBp87MT). This article looks at the benefits of thrifting on an individual scale, highlighting how it helps people save money and can allow people to be more creative. By bringing more awareness to these benefits and how it can be easy to upcycle one’s own items, it would encourage usage of an app that works on that problem of how exactly to do so. 
- [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/) This app is extremely popular and tackles a broad problem that many people have with wanting to be creative and finding inspiration. It has an easy to use layout but when it comes specifically to reusing things, it can be difficult as users may want more personalization based on the condition or traits of the item they want to reuse. 
- [Olio](https://olioapp.com/en/) This app is similar to Swapabee with the problem it addresses but does not necessarily let the user expect anything in return. It suffers from the same limitation as Swapabee since although it may have 8 million downloads, a particular location could have very few users and lead to many not wanting to use it. 
- [11 Creative Ways to Reuse and Repurpose Old Items](https://thispixiecreates.com/11-creative-ways-to-reuse-and-repurpose-old-items/) This blog post reflects the time and effort that people could be willing to put in to ensure nothing goes to waste, which would align with solving the problem of reusing items. 
- [Instructables](https://www.instructables.com/) This site has various tutorials and instructions on how to create a variety of different products. One limitation of it is that it is not very beginner friendly as there are no filters for level of experience, which may scare off many prospective users. Many of the projects also require very specific materials that may not be easily found.

### Encountering Challenges to Mastering a Hobby or Skill 

-  [People don’t have hobbies anymore but they should](https://dailycollegian.com/2023/11/people-dont-have-hobbies-anymore-but-they-should/) This blog post reflects the frustrations of a person who is calling out the lack of creativity and innovation among people her age. The people she mentions, including those that get occupied with school or with work, are an interesting target audience and are affected by this problem of not feeling able to commit to learning something new. This article gives more background as to why that occurs and it can be seen that an app that targets that specifically would be beneficial.
- [Hobbies of America in 2024: Understanding passions across the country](https://aytm.com/post/hobbies-survey) This report provides insight into results from a survey of 1,000 Americans regarding their interest in hobbies, 15% of which reported not even having one. The hobbies mentioned included “playing various types of video games, reading, gardening, watching movies and tv,  listening to music, photography, cooking, jewelry making, hiking, sewing, crocheting, writing, painting, coin collecting, and fishing.” The list provides insight into what kinds of hobbies people are interested in and what could be supported if an app were to be made that specifically targets this problem. 
- [11 fast-growing, in-demand skills that can boost your earnings by thousands](https://www.cnbc.com/2025/09/05/fast-growing-skills-that-can-boost-your-earnings-by-thousands-says-new-report.html) This article highlights how having a certain skill can make a huge difference in a person’s life, specifically when it comes to income. This speaks to the importance of being able to develop new skills and how impactful it would be to be able to solve this problem of people not following through on mastering a skill.
- [3 proven health benefits of having a hobby](https://www.uclahealth.org/news/article/3-proven-health-benefits-having-hobby) This article highlights the mental and physical benefits of having a hobby, including improved cognitive function and a lower risk of chronic disease, which supports why this problem of finding hobbies does matter. 
- [Hobbytwin](https://hobbytwin.com/) This app solves a similar problem, more so focused on the community aspect of having a hobby by matching people with similar hobbies to become friends and do these hobbies together. A limitation is that, at least according to Google Play, it has 10k+ downloads, which does not indicate a huge audience. There’s also a limitation with the fact that if people get a successful match, there is nothing that will necessarily keep them on the app, which means users will be lost easily.
- [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/) This app aims to solve a larger problem of finding community, but within the app, there are a lot of groups focused on hobbies and acquiring new skills. A limitation it has is that for people who are new to a particular one, those groups may feel overwhelming and have an uneven balance of beginners and experienced individuals. It may also be hard to filter through posts to find ways to get started. 
- [Strava](https://www.strava.com/) This app focuses specifically on getting people into running, which it successfully does so for many with its “Community-Powered Motivation” plan. This app has the limitation that it may mainly attract already experienced runners and may be less beginner friendly especially after it got rid of its training plan feature. 
- [The Great Hobby Bust: Why we abandoned our lockdown hobby pastimes](https://medium.com/laneway-dispatch/the-great-hobby-bust-why-we-abandoned-our-lockdown-hobby-pastimes-bbbc8bb4aaae) This blog post focuses specifically on the pandemic and possible causes as to why people left behind their hobbies, including the idea of hustle culture and the need for strict productivity. These are the types of users that are affected by the problem of committing to a hobby and by including badges and other gamification elements in an app, it could assist with the idea of people feeling productive.
- [What We Lose When We’re Priced Out of Our Hobbies](https://www.aol.com/lose-priced-hobbies-120000412.html?utm_source=the-daily-valet&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=the-daily-valet-4-22-25-tuesday) This article highlights the fact that there is a huge obstacle when it comes to solving the problem of people acquiring new hobbies and skills, which is the fact that they can be too expensive to get the materials for. If people are worried about staying on a budget, it makes an app that deals specifically with hobbies appear less of an important problem. 

## Features
### How to Decide on a Solution 
1. **Issue Tracker:** One feature would be to allow the group, roommates for example, to be able to log any small problem that they have identified. By doing this, it can prevent the smaller problems from developing into a larger unaddressed one that requires more mediation. Rather than placing all the pressure on one initiator User, everyone could be responsible for being proactive. This addresses the problem with problem solving by allowing smaller solutions to be decided that feel more manageable and improve the wellbeing of those involved. 
2. **Polls:** Another feature would be to allow users to anonymously cast their votes. This erases the pressure of having to take ownership of a certain idea for a solution that could be controversial and instead allowing people to express their thoughts on it by either voting or not voting on it. This directly leads to a solution and maintains a calmer environment, which solves the problem of deciding on a solution effectively. 
3. **Reports:** This feature would require the people involved in the problem to reflect on whether or not after agreeing on a solution if the solution has been successful. This indirectly solves the problem by ensuring that when another problem does pop up, the people involved such as all of the roommates have become more aware of what has or has not worked in the past. 

### Finding Ideas for Re-using Something
1. **Transformation log:** By allowing users to input images of a before and after for whatever it is that they decided to reuse or create, it instills pride and ownership in the user. The user would be able to have a history tab that lets them see what it is that they have done which encourages the user to continue using the app and to remind themselves of their mission, whether it is was saving money like User #1 or being creative like User #2. Either way, this is important to solving the problem in an indirect manner since it encourages more work to continue to be done on this.
2. **Scan to suggest:** By allowing users to take an image of their item, it would provide a simple way for users to get feedback rather than having to input all of the information on the item which could be time-consuming and lead to a lot of details being missed out on. By having an easy to use feature, it makes it more desirable for the user to engage in the app. 
3. **Challenges:** By introducing the idea of weekly challenges, it encourages the user to be innovative and take risks by doing what they normally would not. It also continues to contribute to sustainability and if there is a large group of people attempting to solve the challenge, it could be even more beneficial. 

### Encountering Challenges to Mastering a Hobby or Skill 
1. **Step by step paths:** This feature could include some gamification through milestones and challenges to get to master a hobby or skill. This could hold any user accountable for their goal, which directly addresses the problem by ensuring they stay on track. It would break down some initial goal a user inputs and make it more manageable. 
2. **Find an expert:** This feature could allow users to submit any questions or concerns into a group that is also looking to develop that same skill or has already mastered their goal. This also encourages users to stay on track rather than simply giving up. It also encourages human interaction and collaboration as well as builds a sense of community, which will also draw the user to the app.
3. **Progress reflections:** After each step is completed from the step by step path, there would be a popup with two questions such as“How do you feel?” or “How was the pace?” This popup would allow for more personalization for the rest of the path, whether it is by breaking it down into more steps or making each step involve more work. This encourages the user to stay engaged rather than getting frustrated with their path, which means they are more likely to learn their skill, which solves the problem. 

